# API v1

<note type="warning">API v1 is depreciated, and hence rate limited.</note>

The REST API gives developers the ability to use Muwaqqit ṣalāh times and astronomical data in their own applications. Data can be requested in JSON, XML or CSV using the appropriate endpoint: https://api.muwaqqit.com/api.json, https://api.muwaqqit.com/api.xml or https://api.muwaqqit.com/api.csv.

The following query string parametres can be used: d (date as yyyy-mm-dd, eg. "d=2016-09-06"); diptype (set "diptype=apparent" to use horizon dip for Fajr/ʿIshāʾ/Ishtibāk); ea (ʿIshāʾ angle in degrees, eg. "ea=-18.0"); eh (elevation of the horizon in metres, eg. "eh=5.0"); eo (elevation of the observer in metres, eg. "eo=5.0"); fa (Fajr angle in degrees, eg. "fa=-18.0"); fea (Fajr/ʿIshāʾ uncertainty in degrees, eg. "fea=0.5"); ia (Karāhah angle in degrees, eg. "ia=4.5"); isn (Ishtibāk al‑Nujūm angle in degrees, eg. "isn=-10.0"); k (refraction coefficient, eg. "k=0.155"); ln (longitude as a decimal, eg. "ln=0.0458383"); lt (latitude as a decimal, eg. "lt=0.0458383"); p (pressure at the observer in mb, eg. "p=1010.0"); t (temperature at the observer in celsius, eg "t=15.0"); rsa (Sun rise/set uncertainty in degrees, eg. "rsa=0.5"); tz (time zone name according to the TZ database where any special characters are escaped, eg. "tz=Europe%2FLondon"); vc (Hilāl sighting model – set "vc=5.65" for naked-eye clear, "vc=3.53" for naked-eye difficult, "vc=2.00" for naked-eye very difficult, "vc=-0.96" for optical aid).

The API returns data for one month at a time. Data is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution License. This allows derivative use on the condition of appropriate attribution and linking back to Muwaqqit.