# Maghrib/Sunset
Maghrib/Sunset is when the trailing limb of the Sun disappears entirely under the horizon.

<note type="warning">Calculating the precise moment of Sun (and by extension twilight) rise/set is not (currently) possible because refraction near the horizon is substantial and calculations do not account for live atmospheric conditions and are imprecise below 1°. This is despite all the extreme accuracy of modern positional astronomy. See discussions by [Schaefer & Liller 1990](http://articles.adsabs.harvard.edu/cgi-bin/nph-iarticle_query?bibcode=1990PASP..102..796S&db_key=AST&page_ind=0&data_type=GIF&type=SCREEN_VIEW&classic=YES), [Young 2004](https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1086/420806/pdf), [Sampson et al 2003](http://www.jstor.org/stable/10.1086/378214), [Wilson 2018](https://digitalcommons.mtu.edu/etdr/697).</note>

The Shāfiʿīs and Ḥanbalīs say that Maghrib ends with the disappearance of the red twilight glow. The Ḥanafīs say that Maghrib ends with the disappearance of the white twilight glow, although the Sāhibayn hold that Maghrib ends with the disappearance of the red twilight glow. The difference between the disappearance of the red and white twilight glow is approximately 3°, and likely to vary with atmospheric conditions. The Mālikīs say that Maghrib lasts only as long as is required to perform Maghrib prayer and fulfill the requisite conditions for its validity as well as the adhān and iqāmah; and that its extended time lasts until Fajr.

**Method:** The Sun is in the western half of the sky and its trailing limb is at the horizon. The altitude is corrected for refraction, and relative to the observer's apparent horizon. The apparent horizon is the astronomical horizon corrected for the relative elevation of the observer. However, since refraction near the horizon is substantial, and current methods are based on normative models which do not account for live atmospheric conditions and are imprecise below 1°, there is considerable scope for uncertainty. Since it is necessary to delay the prayer and fast until certainty that the Sun has set, Muwaqqit allows for an additional uncertainty range alongside the standard normative corrections for refraction. This can be set according to user preference. The default is ±1°.