# Ẓuhr
Ẓuhr begins when the Sun declines (and is immediately after [Istiwāʾ](/istiwa)).

<note>In theory, the Sun begins to decline immediately after [Transit](/transit), however this may not be discernible by observing shadow lengths. [In this case Istiwāʾ will be an instant and is the same as [Transit](/transit).] Along with [Transit](/transit), two times are shown for Ẓuhr where discernibility are considered. The first is when the entire disc of the Sun has crossed the upper meridian and no part of it remains in the East. [This is also the method that is used for the [Istiwāʾ](/istiwa) period shown.] The second in parenthesis (only shown on the web version of Muwaqqit) is in terms of shadow increase over transit for a 2m gnomon. Various shadow increases are documented by [King 2003](https://brill.com/abstract/title/7640), most notably one-twelfth and one-quarter of a gnomon.</note>

The Shāfiʿīs and Ḥanbalīs say that Ẓuhr ends when the shadow of an object is the length of the object increased by the length of its meridian shadow. The Mālikīs hold the same but say that its extended time lasts to sundown. They also maintain that there is a shared time period between Ẓuhr and ʿAṣr the length of which is the time required to complete four rakʿah of prayer (or two for a traveller) but differ as to if this period is at the end of Ẓuhr or the beginning of ʿAṣr.

The Ḥanafīs say that Ẓuhr ends when the shadow of an object is twice the length of the object increased by the length of its meridian shadow, although the Sāhibayn hold that Ẓuhr ends when the shadow of an object is the length of the object increased by the length of its meridian shadow, in agreement with the other three schools.

The Ḥanafīs and Shāfiʿīs say that the time for the Friday prayer (Ṣalāt al-Jumuʿah) is the same as Ẓuhr. However, the Mālikīs say that its time extends until Sunset. The Ḥanbalīs say that its time begins when the sun has risen one spear length ([al-Ḍaḥwa al‑Ṣughrā](/al-dahwa-al-sughra)) and lasts until the ending time of Ẓuhr.

**Method:** The trailing limb of the sun is at the observer's upper meridian. In the web version of Muwaqqit, a time in terms of shadow increase over transit (in millimetres) for a 2m gnomon is also shown. The increase can be set according to user preference. The default is 1mm. Positions are corrected for refraction.